Date: 2011-09-13
Title: Ad Agents of Change

**UPDATE 2001/09/21** Oh wow. Look what industry leader W+K is doing. [Wieden + Kennedy Tech Incubator Picks Its Startup Class of 2011](http://www.fastcompany.com/1781598/wieden-kennedy-tech-incubator-picks-its-start-up-class-of-2011).

**UPDATE 2011/09/19** There's been some discussion on this exact topic elsewhere apparently. Check out articles on [Mobile Inc](http://www.mobileinc.co.uk/2011/08/can-the-next-instagramhipstamatickloutangry-birds-be-born-within-a-agency/) and a followup on a former [colleague's blog](http://no-mans-blog.com/2011/09/18/before-we-make-instagram-lets-make-housebite-first/). 

Businesses putting software development into their core skills are [winning](http://online.wsj.com/article/SB10001424053111903480904576512250915629460.html?mod=wsj_share_tweet), small and big. Every day I see a new way in which software adds value to our lives by enabling us to do more, better or quicker. Businesses have known this for a long time now, but their relationship with this idea is one defined by fear and uncertainty. Adding software and innovation to the core competency of a business is a change so big, that many simply don't take the steps necessary, and eventually stop being part of the discussion. Add to that the drought of skill, explained in part by high demand of software developers and related expertise. An old business with old management is not an exciting environment for technically skilled entrepreneurs, even when you add the willingness of said company to morph and adapt.

I think we've accumulated enough examples of death-by-technology that most companies realize the need by now are urged, and the ways in which they may become irrelevant keep them awake at night. They may not have a plan of action, but everyone and their grandmother seems to be looking for more technical and internet-savvy staff to run and adapt their business. 

Supply and demand for developers will even out in the next twenty years or so, as the software ecosystem evolves and attacks the long tail of problems to solve. But in the meantime there is a great opportunity for digital advertisement agencies to help businesses in some key areas. Online strategy is no longer a statement of intended marketing, but an action plan to evolve and adapt. Treat the client's online strategy like a survival guide for the software age. Agencies should bring up the questions, point the way and in these strange transition times, *yes*, bring the technical knowhow, insofar as they are prepared and willing to take the risks associated, supply the manpower, get fairly rewarded for their efforts etc.

Naysayers will point out that agencies should not adopt the DNA of product developers. Advertising has its roots in a very different place as that of inventors and innovators. To them I point to Apple, a company restored on principles of taste, design and the confidence to say "no" — all traits of effective advertisement. This is not a natural transition, but the *event* that is the software revolution is exactly the kind of defining event that moulds an industry.