Date: 2011-10-07
Title: Value of Openness

I keep hearing people, mostly programmers or at least people working in the computer industry, criticize Apple for being a closed company. Apple reserve rights to remove whole applications from the App Store, and have a very top down iron fist control of their products and the ecosystem in which they live. Keep in mind that a single application can be a whole team of highly skilled workers, investing a year of their life to produce an application. Apple recognize certain areas where openness is crucial, like creating good internet apps and architecting an OS on top of an open platform. 

The discussion is becoming more and more uninteresting. In my mind Apple has proven that on the whole it is much better to have an ecosystem of products, content and applications that works seamlessly, then having a place where every application and external interest has a rightfully equal place. A coordinator party that controls the whole experience wins, because the task of delivering something usable and seamless is near, possibly completely impossible by way of open standards and committee procedure. 

Just look at the web. It has taken ten years to progress at glacial speed to coordinate, draft and accept open standards. Only now is the web becoming a viable platform for anything like a high fidelity desktop application. Many argue that the open process is so crippled that proprietary platforms like iOS will [always win out in user experience](http://joehewitt.com/2011/09/26/what-the-web-is-and-is-not). 

Consider that all open source projects have been started by a tightly controlled group in a closed environment, usually just one person. Later the source code is opened up to scrutiny and code submissions are discussed, rejected or accepted. But the vision is either lost or control is kept by the original team. I have a hunch some open source software might be better off closed or semi-closed. Many hardcore free software geeks are too sympathetic towards the religious goals of Richard M. Stallman. Consumers don't care about openness, they just want usability. That's the business Apple is in.

I don't have high hopes for The Wisdom of Crowds. I believe in leadership and vision. I'm sorry if your application got rejected or removed by Apple, but like so many things in life it's a gamble. I would actually be more worried about consumers rejecting your startup idea then Apple. In the end, Apple has brought more consumers and purchases to the table then any other force. Journalists are struggling to get paid for their work, while App Store developers are in the middle of a 21st century gold rush.